# Cell profiler Bacteria Tracking Plot

The `cellProfilerBacteriaTrackingPlot.py` script generates tracking plots for bacteria over different time steps using data from CSV file (output of CellProfiler) and raw images. </br>
The plots visualize the lineage life history of cells in each time step on a background image.

## Usage
Specify the following parameters in the <a href='cellProfilerBacteriaTrackingPlot.py#L198'>main</a> function:
- `cp_output_csv_file`: Path to the CSV file containing bacteria data.
- `raw_img_dir`: Directory where the raw images are stored.
- `output_dir`: Directory where the output plots will be saved.
- `prefix_raw_name`: Prefix for the raw image files.
- `postfix_raw_name`: Postfix for the raw image files.
- `color`: Color used for plotting.
- `font_size`: Font size for annotations.

### Details about prefix_raw_name and postfix_raw_name
The `prefix_raw_name` and `postfix_raw_name` parameters are used to construct the filenames of the raw images that correspond to each time step. </br>The script generates the filenames based on the time step number, formatted to match the naming convention of the raw image files.
</br></br>
For example, if the raw images are named K12_Scene2_C0_T01.tif, K12_Scene2_C0_T02.tif, etc.:
- prefix_raw_name should be K12_Scene2_C0_T
- postfix_raw_name should be .tif
</br>
The script constructs the image filename for a given time step by combining the prefix, the zero-padded time step number (based on the length of the highest time step number), and the postfix.
</br></br>
<b>Note about the order of images</b></br>
The script assumes that the images are ordered sequentially by time step. It constructs the image filenames based on the time step numbers extracted from the CSV file. The filenames must follow a consistent pattern to ensure the correct image is used for each time step.


# Trackrefiner Bacteria Tracking Plot
The `trackrefinerBacteriaTrackingPlot.py` script generates tracking plots for bacteria over different time steps using data from CSV file (output of Trackrefiner) and raw images. </br>
The plots visualize the lineage life history of cells in each time step on a background image.

## Usage
The script requires several input arguments, which can be provided through the command line:
- `-t`, `--trackrefiner_csv_output_file`:
Path to the CSV file output generated by TrackRefiner. This file should contain tracking data, including cell IDs, parent IDs, orientations, and other relevant information for each cell at each time step.
- `-r`, `--raw_image_dir`:
Directory containing the raw images corresponding to each time step. The images should be named in a sequential format.</br>
<b>Note about the order of images</b></br>
The script assumes that the images are ordered sequentially by time step. It constructs the image filenames based on the time step numbers extracted from the CSV file. The filenames must follow a consistent pattern to ensure the correct image is used for each time step.
- `-o`, `--output`:
Directory where the output tracking plots should be saved. If not provided, the plots will be saved in a subdirectory named tracking_plot in the same directory as the TrackRefiner CSV file.
- `-u`, `--umPerPixel`:
Conversion factor from pixels to micrometers. This value is used to scale the cell sizes and positions correctly in the plots.</br>
Default Value: 0.144
- `-c`, `--objectColor`:
Color of the objects (cells) in the tracking plots. Colors should be provided in hexadecimal format.</br>
Default Value: #56e64e (green)
- `-f`, `--font_size`:
Font size for labeling information (cell IDs and parent IDs) on objects in the plots.</br>
Default Value: 1

## How to Run the Script from the Command Line
To run the script, use the following format:</br>
```
python trackrefinerBacteriaTrackingPlot.py -t <trackrefiner_csv_output_file> -r <raw_image_dir> -o <output_dir> -u <umPerPixel> -c <objectColor> -f <font_size>
```
